- For inter service communication in a distributed system or a microservice architecture, one approach is Event Driven Architecture.

- In this services communicate through events rather than direct synchronous calls to each other.

- Messages are coordinated through Event Brokers or Pub-Sub messaging platform.

- But if changes in one consumer's contract requires us to make modification to all other consumers, then we are back to a tighly coupled system which we do not want.

- Schema Evolution is one way in which teams maintain loose coupling as microservices evolve.

- Schema Evolution refers to the ability to modify the structure of message or data between microservices without breaking compatibility.

- Key strategies for Schema Evolution:

1. Backward compatibility (New Services can Read Old Methods. How? Add New Fields, not delete previous fields)

2. Forward Compatibility (Old Services can Read New Message. Same Add New fields, disable strict validation. In this case the old services can barely read new data, not parse new fields)

3. Fully Compatible Schema Evolution (Both backward and forward)

- Maintain versioning (Topic Versioning in Kafka)
- Use Schema Registeries

- Another solution to the problem is through message transformation. We can transform the message after it is produced but before it is consumed.

- Transformations have more advantage than schema evolution. They can act as filter, add context to data, clean data, normalize data, etc.

- Performing operations on a constant flow of messages such as events travelling between microservices is called stream processing.

- In stateful stream processing, the accumulated state of previous events influence the way current streams are handled.

## Helios

- Real time event stream are very useful to gain insights and drive decision making. Viewing raw event data, performing ad-hoc analysis and debugging events in real time are challenging.

- The defining characteristics of event streaming is its real time nature - where data is processed as it arrives rather than being stored for later analysis.

- Event Store are optimized for throughput, not for adhoc query or historical analysis. So questions like what are "top 5 products viewed in the last hours" are not possible with Kafka.

- There are a number of third party services that allow user to explore real time event streams using SQL.
